# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`accessrule`](#accessrule): Create an entry in access.conf.  Each resource has a name that (must) start with a number. The number determines the order of the entries in 

## Resource types

### `accessrule`

Create an entry in access.conf.

Each resource has a name that (must) start with a number. The number determines
the order of the entries in access.conf.
`pam_access` uses the first matching entry, so the order is important.

Each parameter corresponds to a field in [access.conf](https://linux.die.net/man/5/access.conf).
A parameter can take any value the field allows (including @netgroup, @netgroup@@netgroup and EXCEPT clauses).

The _who_ and _origin_ parameters must be a list of strings. EXCEPT clauses must be provided as a single string,
but should come last as everything after an EXCEPT in access.conf is considered as part of that clause.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `accessrule` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `origin`

origins field. Must be a list of strings. All valid access.conf values are accepted.

##### `permission`

Valid values: `+`, `-`

Permission. Either + (allow) or - (deny).

Default value: `-`

##### `who`

users/groups field. Must be a list of strings. All valid access.conf values are accepted.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `accessrule` type.

##### `name`

Valid values: `%r{^\d+[[:graph:][:space:]]+$}`

Rule name. Must exist of a number, a space and a name. The number determines the order in the access.conf file. The name
can be anything you want. The order between rules with the same number can change.

##### `provider`

The specific backend to use for this `accessrule` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

